Add primitive-backed enumerations. (#25)
Crell/enum-comparison: rfc.md

## Introduction

This RFC introduces Enumerations to PHP. Specifically, it introduces what are variously called "Algebraic Data Types", "tagged unions", or simply "enumerations" depending on the language. This capability offers greatly expanded support for data modeling, custom type definitions, and monad-style behavior. Enums enable the modeling technique of "make invalid states unrepresentable," which leads to more robust code with less need for exhaustive testing.

Many languages have support for enumerations of some variety. A [survey we conducted of various languages](https://github.com/Crell/enum-comparison) found that they could be categorized into three general groups: Fancy Constants, Fancy Objects, and full Algebraic Data Types. For this implementation we opted to implement full Algebraic Data Types, as that offers the most robust set of functionality while also degrading gracefully to simpler use cases. (Or it progressively enhances to more complex use cases, depending on your point of view.)

> The specific implementation here draws inspiration primarily from Swift, Rust, and Kotlin, but is not (nor is it intended as) a perfect 1:1 port of any of them.  Enumerations take many forms depending on the language, and we opted to implement the most robust combination of functionality feasible.  Every piece of functionality described here exists in a similar form in at least one, usually several, other enumeration-supporting languages.  It is implemented as a single RFC rather than a series of RFCs as the functionality all inter-relates, and if full ADTs are the goal (as we believe they should be) then it's easier to implement them at once rather than to dribble-in functionality in potentially disjoint pieces.

Reviewer: Are the two spaces intentional? (line break in MD)

Author: I still don't know what you're talking about... :smile: If you mean 2 spaces after a period, yes, intentional, and of no relevance to MD.

}
```

### Value listing

> The enumeration itself has an automatically generated static method `values()`.  `values()` returns an indexed array of all defined Cases in lexical order.

Reviewer: Indexed by what? Perhaps packed is a more appropriate word.

Author: I've never heard them called "packed" arrays outside of internals discussions.  "indexed array" and "associative array" are the standard terms I see just about everywhere except in engine discussions.

Reviewer: "Packed" in this context means starting with index 0 and always incrementing by 1, so what other languages would consider normal arrays.

Author: Eh.  I guess for an RFC calling it that may be more precise, but no one who doesn't read Internals uses that term.  Most have probably never even heard of it.

Reviewer: So, just drop the indexed part altogether then. All arrays in PHP are indexed.

Author: I already updated it to packed.  But it may be a language difference here.  I've never seen an English speaker use "packed array" instead of "indexed array' when referring to a numeric-key array.

> The enumeration itself has an automatically generated static method `values()`.  `values()` returns an indexed array of all defined Cases in lexical order.

Author: ```suggestion
The enumeration itself has an automatically generated static method `values()`.  `values()` returns a packed array of all defined Cases in lexical order.
```

```php
Suit::values();
// Produces: [Suit::Hearts, Suit::Diamonds, Suit::Clubs, Suit:Spades]
```

### Primitive-Equivalent Cases

By default, Enumerated Cases have no primitive equivalent.  They are simply singleton objects.  However, there are ample cases where an Enumerated Case needs to be able to round-trip to a database or similar datastore, so having a built-in primitive (and thus trivially serializable) equivalent defined intrinsically is useful.

To define a primitive equivalent for an Enumeration, the syntax is as follows:

```php
enum Suit: string {

>   case Hearts('H');

Reviewer: I feel pretty strongly about using `=` here. I don't think there's a technical problem with using parens but I feel like using two different syntaxes makes more sense (and also Swift already uses `=`).

Author: It's not a hill I'll die on either way.  My main concern is mixing that with methods:

```php
enum Suit: string {
  case Hearts = 'H' {
    public function color() { return 'Red'; }
  }
}
```

That just looks kind of weird.

Reviewer: True, it looks a little odd... Although that's a similar syntax that might be used for accessors in the future.

```php
class Foo {
    public $bar = 42 {
        didSet { ... }
    }
}
```

Author: Is that an argument for or against using it here?  I can't tell. :-)  Again, I don't care all that much on this point.

Reviewer: I'm for `=` :slightly_smiling_face:

  case Diamonds('D');
  case Clubs('C');
  case Spades('S');
}
```

> Primitive backing types of `int`, `string`, or `float` are supported, and a given enumeration supports only a single type at a time.  (That is, no union of `int|string`.)  If an enumeration is marked as having a primitive equivalent, then all cases must have a unique primitive equivalent defined.

Reviewer: Are the two spaces intentional? (line break in MD)

Author: Uh, not sure I follow?  2 spaces where?  I always put a blank line between a code block and surrounding text.

Reviewer: ```
`int|string`.)  If an enumeration
              ^-- Right here
```

Again, might be intentional. But two spaces [are interpreted as a line break in markdown](https://gist.github.com/shaunlebron/746476e6e7a4d698b373).

Author: In 10 years of using Markdown I have never once seen two spaces after a period get rendered as a line break.  And in the README.md file right now I have a crapload of "period-space-space" lines that do not break to a new line.  I just checked.

I don't know what that post is on about, but it's not what happens.

Reviewer: Actually, this is only really relevant after a newline. So nevermind ^^

A Primitive-Equivalent Case will automatically down-cast to its primitive when used in a primitive context.  For example, when used with `print`.  

```php
print Suit::Clubs;
// prints "C"

> print "I hope I draw a " . Suit::Spades;

Reviewer: That's the part we're still unsure about, right? Because if you implement __toString for string-backed enums we're not sure which representation the user wants. I'd actually prefer never to do implicit conversion. Calling `->value()` (or whatever we choose) doesn't seem like a big inconvenience to me.

Reviewer 2: I think casting would be preferable to `->value()`. Even just syntactically this irks me : `Suit::Spades->value()`, whereas this doesn't: `(string) Suit::Spades`. Can we distinguish between these casts and weak type related ones?

Reviewer: @morrisonlevi How would you solve the conflict? By disallowing a manual implementation of `__toString()`? That should probably work. We still have an issue with `int` and `float`. They're currently converted to `1`/`1.0` respectively (only on manual casting though). We'll probably want to make this behave differently for enum objects. Maybe at the same time it's time to deprecate conversion of other non-enum objects to ints/floats.

// prints "I hope I draw a S".
```

> Passing a Primitive Case to a primitive-typed parameter or return will produce the primitive value in weak-typing mode, and produce a `TypeError` in strict-typing mode.

Reviewer: Same here, passing `Suit::Spades` to `takesString`, we don't know if the user wants to pass the backed value or the result of `__toString`. I'd prefer requiring explicitness.

> A Primitive-Backed enumeration also has a static method `from()` that is automatically generated.  The `from()` method will up-cast from a primitive to its corresponding Enumerated Case.  Invalid primitives with no matching Case will throw a `TypeError`.

Author: ```suggestion
A Primitive-Backed enumeration also has a static method `from()` that is automatically generated.  The `from()` method will up-cast from a primitive to its corresponding Enumerated Case.  Invalid primitives with no matching Case will throw a `ValueError`.
```

> A Primitive-Backed enumeration also has a static method `from()` that is automatically generated.  The `from()` method will up-cast from a primitive to its corresponding Enumerated Case.  Invalid primitives with no matching Case will throw a `TypeError`.

Reviewer: `InvalidArgumentException` or maybe a `ValueError` might be more appropriate.

Author: I'm good with whatever for the specific error cases.

Author: Caveat: Right now, passing an incorrectly typed value to a parameter throws a `TypeError`.  Perhaps a child of `TypeError` would be more appropriate, but that is what's consistent with the language now.  `InvalidArgumentException` should be left for cases that are enforced in user-space.  This is a code-error, thus should be an `Error`, not `Exception`.

Reviewer: It's not necessarily the wrong type.

```php
enum Foo: string {
    case Bar = 'BAR';
}

Foo::from('BAZ');
```

It's a `string`, just not a valid one.

> `InvalidArgumentException` should be left for cases that are enforced in user-space.

That's true, maybe `ValueError` would be most appropriate.

Author: Oh!  Right, we're looking at that part of the spec.  I thought it was the other place that I mention `TypeError`.  `ValueError` is also fine by me.  Will update.

```php
$record = get_stuff_from_database($id);
print $record['suit'];
// Prints "H"
$suit = Suit::from($record['suit']);
$suit === Suit::Hearts; // True
```

> A Primitive-Backed enumeration additionally has a method `list()` that returns an associated array of cases, in lexical order, keyed by their primitive equivalent.

Reviewer: As mentioned, this probably belongs into reflection.

```php
$list = Suit::list();
$list === [
'H' => Suit::Hearts,
'D' => Suit::Diamonds,
'C' => Suit::Clubs,
'S' => Suit::Spades,
]; // true
```

> Primitive-backed Cases are not allowed to define a `__toString()` method, as that would create confusion with the primitive value itself.

Reviewer: If we don't do implicit coercion allowing `__toString` should be no problem.

## Backward Incompatible Changes

> "enum" and "type" become language keywords, with the usual potential for naming conflicts with existing global constants.

Reviewer: Why does type become a keyword?

Author: See the section on `match`.  Still not sure that's the correct approach, but it's all I've got for the moment.

Reviewer: Oh I forgot about that part. IMO this approach is just too limiting.

Author: I am very open to better ideas, but we need some way to indicate that `match()` should do something other than an === check.
